= db-purge

DbPurge is a plugin that designed to reset your database to a pristine state
prior to running tests. The plugin assumes ActiveRecord is used to communicate 
with the database.

DbPurge wraps each test in a transaction and rolls the transaction back at the
end of the test. Before the first test runs the plugin will also attempt to
clean the database. The plugin will also clean the database if it is told that
a test uses a transaction internally. The clean action deletes rows from databases
in an order configured by the plugin user. 

== Integration with a test framework

To integrate with a test framework, DbPurge requires that two methods be called
at the start and at the end of the test. The following demonstrates how to
incorporate it into the Rails unit testing framework.

  class ActiveSupport::TestCase
    protected

    self.setup :setup_db_purge
    self.teardown :teardown_db_purge

    def setup_db_purge
      DbPurge.start
    end

    def teardown_db_purge
      DbPurge.finish
    end
  end

Note the <tt>DbPurge.start</tt> method takes an optional parameter that indicates the
table set that the tests use and thus the tables that will be cleaned. If unspecified
the <tt>:default</tt> table set is used.

== Tests that use a transaction

A test can indicate that it uses a transaction by invoking <tt>DbPurge.uses_transaction</tt>
between the invocation of <tt>DbPurge.start</tt> and <tt>DbPurge.finish</tt>. This will ensure that
the next test attempts to clean the database.

== Configuring the clean action

The clean action attempts to issue a <tt>DELETE FROM</tt> SQL statement for every table in the
table set supplied to the <tt>DbPurge.start</tt> method. The table set also defines the order
in which tables are deleted.

e.g.

  # Define the default table set used when no parameter passed to start
  DbPurge.define_tableset(:default, [:tblSubPart, :tblComponent])

  # Define the table set used when :audit parameter passed to start
  DbPurge.define_tableset(:audit, [:tblLogEntry, :tblLogSession])

== Credit

The gem was initially developed by StockSoftware for use in the Department
of Sustainability and Environment, Victoria, Australia. It was inspired by the
database_cleaner plugin. See http://github.com/bmabey/database_cleaner
